So yeah,
we're gonna be moving pretty fast.
So can I mean if you know
Vim you can also move fast.
[SOUND] Okay, anyways, so I'm also not
gonna try to go over a lot of syntax for.
So for those that don't know rust if
you know rust, don't say anything but
what do you think happens right here?
>> You return either a zero or one.
>> Yes, it's assigning it to food correct.
And so if you've programmed before you can
kinda mostly deduce what is happening.
So I'm going to rely on your skills to be
able to do that like I'm not gonna explain
what an if statement is.
I'm not gonna explain any syntax for
the most part.
I will explain a small part about Rust
that I think are the more confusing parts
or the different parts from
other C based languages.
And same with go I'll kinda go okay these
are pointers these aren't pointers.
We're not gonna go too deep into them
because it's just not that valuable
knowing how to use it versus what is
actually going on you don't necessarily
need to know these as much in these
languages versus this is not C where it's
it feels dramatically more
important to know these things.
And so, exact same thing
TypeScript version, right?
Boolean statement ternary operator.
I couldn't use the Add on or OR or
but I still feel disgusted by that but
even to this day.
All right and I think actually
did I put the logic backwards?
No I didn't.
Okay good.
It would actually be very hard to do
the and on or or here.
So the first thing that we're gonna
kinda talk a little bit about is
the Borrow Checker.
Now this is obviously the most kinda
famous thing about rust that makes it
super duper difficult.
And we're just gonna go
over this a little bit.
Just enough for you to understand it.
And there's some few simple rules that as
long as you keep those rules in your head.
Rust is just it almost feels really
simple looking in the rearview mirror but
when I was first learning it it
felt really obtuse and hard.
And so just like all things,
simplicity comes after you know it, and
then you look back, and you're like,
how do people did not get this, right?
It just feels so
simple once you look back.
So don't feel bad in it.
So I'm gonna jump over here, and I'm just
actually gonna program a little something,
just so that we can all feel it's
all here, we'll go like this,
we'll call it playground?
That seems about right, playground
project, yeah, let's go in here.
All right.
Before we do that,
always remember whenever you're doing
anything's a net why gotta get
these things going cargo and net.
We'll go over all this
a little bit more in a moment.
I'm just kinda creating some things to
show you a little bit how it feels,
cargo init and go mod init
github.com/theprimeagen/doesn't matter.
There we go.
All right.
Perfect, we have all three up and running.
Everything looks good.
And I'm gonna go yarn add
ts-node typescript @types/node.
Gosh.
All right, now I can officially
program and TypeScript, I'm ready.
All right, so let's just do a little quick
like little just we're just gonna look at
how this looks.
So if I were to write a little function or
if I were just to execute some code I
said const a equals an array and
then I said const b equals a.
And then I did b d.push.1 and
I logged out console.log a.
What's gonna happen here?
What am I logging out?
What's gonna log out with a?
>> One.
>> Yeah an array of one, right?
>> Yeah.
>> An array of one.
And why is that?
Because b points to a underneath the hood,
these are actually they're technically
containers underneath, like va has these
little boxed values, that point to stuff,
and that's how they manage it.
And there's a bunch of management
that goes on and blah, blah, blah.
You don't really care about it.
But what you care about is
that a refers to a value.
That's an array.
B refers to a, and
can manipulate what a's value is, right?
And so that's what happens here.
So when I log out a I should see
whatever b did to manipulate it.
And now we do this implicitly all the time
we don't really think about it but
underneath the hood if you know if
you come from a c world this just
pointers, right?
You're just kinda handing out pointers and
people can manipulate it and
that's what it is.
That's why JavaScript is both so
fun, and also so annoying.
Because even though I've declared this
thing, as you cannot change, you can
change this, not changeable because
sometimes not changing is unreasonable.
And so
,that's just how JavaScript decided to go.
So let's do that again,
but let's do it with CPP.
Everyone's favorite language of all time,
right?
And apparently I can't spa a language
server, don't worry about that.
We don't need that language server anyway.
So we're gonna go into main and
we're gonna jump in here and
I'm gonna go include vector and stdio.
Can I just do this I always forget
we'll find out when we compile.
So there we go we have our includes and
now I'm gonna go like this vector
we'll put in and we'll go a will
do the exact same thing and go b.
And b will equal a.
And I'm gonna go b push_back 1.
And now of course because this is
beautiful C++ you can't just pass that and
print a vector.
What is that you can't do that?
So we're gonna just do this nice little
const auto our cansado we won't do that,
std vector, a int and a reference to it.
And we'll just call it a and for
consnt auto item in a and we'll printf,
Item sorry,
just give it a second printf vector.
There we go.
And of course print f and a new line.
Look at how beautiful that is.
See, this language is simple.
All those people saying that C++ isn't
simple, they just don't understand it.
All right, print f a,
and of course print a.
So what do you think is gonna happen here?
Probably the same stuff, right?
So let's go over here.
And go, I never actually tested it.
Okay, good.
I just realized that I might not know up.
Yep.
Okay, go in here.
Perfect.
What is it?
./a.out.
Yeah.
So a vector, it has nothing in it.
Well, let's try would b,
that seems a little weird because we just
said b equals a and then we did that.
So for fun, let's put b in here.
There we go, and recompile and re execute.
So look at what happened here.
Is that a little strange?
For a lot of people that have only
ever worked in the JavaScript world,
this may seem a touch strange.
Well, what's actually happening
is that when you do this,
the vector is copied from a into b.
There are two separate vectors which
means that I could come here and
create a vector c, put that in here,
go here and do another one.
Take this, take b, turn into c,
and execute it again.
And now, as you can see,
that's a little bit different, right?
You may or
may not expected that to happen.
So this is a different way you
can think about programing.
Obviously, C++ gives you the ability
to do different operations.
There's move constructors,
there's copy constructors,
they have a bunch of
ampersand signs in them.
I don't remember exactly even how to
do them because I rarely do them but
there's a lot to C++.
There's a lot of ways to shoot yourself in
the foot and this is one of the many ways
that I have personally shot myself
in the foot and it's fantastic.
But the reason why I bring this up is that
we often don't think about variables if
you've come from the TypeScript
world like this,
where there's actually different
behaviors based on the equal sign.
And so Rust has its own behavior
based on the equal sign.
So let's kinda check that out.
Yep, we're not the I did
a shorter example here.
I gave you guys the premium
version of this example.
All right, so while you come here,
so let's do this again.
Except for this time, let's do it in Rust.
Now I'm gonna get this nice long air for
a second and then it's gonna go away.
And I'm gonna go,
let a equals vec bang this, all right?
And then I'm gonna go b equals a.
Here I'll even define a,
we don't even need to define a.
And go.
We'll call it mute, b.push, and
we'll put in the number one.
There we go.
Now a has been defined,
b has been defined.
It's a vector of i 32.
For those that don't know vector,
you can just think of it as like a list,
a linked list, an array list,
whatever it is underneath the hood.
You don't have to know what it is.
It's just a list of some sort, all right?
And so now of course we can go print ln in
the sense if this language is better we
can do this beautiful greater operator and
we can print this out, right?
This makes.
We probably all can guess
what's about to happen.
So I'm gonna go cargo run
we see an array of one.
Awesome.
I'm gonna also make obviously a mutable
and it says hey you don't have to
do that well let's go a.push1.
What happened here?
It's saying you can't do that, right?
Why is that?
Well, there's a very
specific reason in rust and
once you get this mental model in,
Rust become significantly easier to use.
It just takes a little bit of time.